All right! In the previous video, I showed
you how we could go ahead and send out
messages to a JMS queue. What we wanna
do here is start receiving those
messages. So, I'm gonna set up a
message listener and it's really really
easy to do inside of Spring. So, I'm gonna come over here and I'm gonna
create a new Package want to say
listener like so.
And, let me create a new Java Class.
I'm just gonna call that HelloMessageListener. And really could call this
whatever we wanted. And of course, this is
gonna be a Spring @Component.
Now, what I wanna do here is I'm gonna set up a special method and I'm gonna
say public.
I'm just gonna call that listen like
so. And now, what I can do is I can ask
that for a few things. So, remember, we're
expecting a helloWorldMessage and I
can also ask it for MessageHeaders.
I'm just gonna call that headers and
then also Message.
In here, I'm gonna show you, remember I
previously used the JMS flavor. Here, I'm
gonna use the Spring message flavor. Just
to show you how Spring can actually
abstract the implementation that we're
working with. So, here I have three
properties here. Now, there's couple
annotations that we wanna be working
with. Now, this is gonna be
@Payload. So, this @Payload annotation is
gonna tell Spring Framework to go
ahead and deserialize up component. The
payload of that JMS message, it says, I'm
expecting you to get a message,
a HelloWorldMessage from this queue. In here, I
can also do headers. This headers
annotation is gonna tell Spring
Framework to go ahead and get the
MessageHeaders. And in this case, it's
gonna be equivalent to the JMS
message properties and the header
properties. And, we will take a closer
look at that. Now, what I can do here
is I wanna setup a JMS listener and
you can see a there's a listener or
listeners. I'm gonna be taking a
listener specifically. And the
destination again. The same, it's gonna
be the JmsConfig and we wanna do MY_QUEUE like so. In here,
use System.out
say
I'm just gonna do a System.out saying "I Got A Message!!!!".
And also, System.out and let's see here, we
wanna do that helloWorldMessage. And,
I came out annotated us with the
@Data. So, yes, I do have that with @Data. So,
we'll get a nice hello world message via
Project Lombok. So, when it gets despecialized it will have that functionality
there. So, that's really all we need to
set up. I am marking this as a Spring
Framework component and then I'm
annotating this method with @JmsListener
and this is telling Spring, 'Hey, listen to
this queue name and when there's a
message on that queue, send the message
to this method'. So, let's go ahead and run
this. I'm gonna start this up now.
You can see here that I am in fact
getting a message it. So, I can see
Message Sent!!. I got a message and you can
see it's nearly instantaneous. So, JMS
is very fast. When a message gets on the
queue, it could solve the queue in a
hurry. So, you can see I can't see a delay
from when it's sent to when it's
received. So, I'm gonna go ahead and stop
this. And what I wanna do now is I wanna
bring this up in the debugger and
show you some properties here. So, let's
go ahead and I'm adding a debug in this.
And rather than click on this one, I'm
gonna run it with a little bug icon and
it should stop at that break point for
us. So, we can inspect what's going on
there a little bit closer.
You can see here came up
in the debugger. And you can see, I resize
this just a little bit. That's a little
bit better. So, you can see here I'm on a
breakpoint on line 26. I'm on that system
outline and you can see here's the class,
here's the helloWorldMessage. So, this is
the Java object that Spring Framework
bound. So, it went through the de-serialization process. And now, if I take a
look at the second property, the headers,
the message headers, we can see here.
Remember, when we start talking originally about JMS,
these are a variety of the JMS property.
So, you can see the JMS delivery mode.
The JMS redelivery, the destination, the
timestamp, expiration. So, a number of
different properties and then remember
here, we set that type property in our
configuration. Remember, when we set up
the message converter, we set that type.
So, here we set _type and you
can see the value. So, that is the fully
qualified class name of the HelloWorldMessage.
So now, we know how to queue that.
Then let me collapse down the other
properties and the headers. Let's take a
closer look at the message. And here, this
is the actual JMS message. So, you can see
that as a ActiveMQ text message. So, that
is the actual implementation of a JMS
text message. And here, we can see that it
is a text message and there's a JSON
payload. So, that message does not
actually have a serialized object or a
Java object on it. Actually, it has a string
of JSON that is attached to it. So, what
Spring is doing is it is deserializing
that into a Java object for us. But
because I've bound the message there, we
can see the full properties of that
message. And here, we can see a number of
different properties. Some of the stuff
is not set as far as how things are
being set and that could be a type
conversion within Spring as it's going
from JMS to the Spring message format. So,
I will let you guys look at some of this
on your own as far as if you want to
investigate the properties. But stuff
like this, when you get a chance things
like this, it's a really good to go in
and get things in a debugger. See what's
going on to satisfy your curiosity.
Hopefully, bringing this up in the
debugger, you can see how things all tied
together. Everything that we've been
talking about as far as sending the
message. It's actually going to a queue.
It's getting converted to JSON and
converted back from JSON. So, let me go
ahead and stop this
and minimize this. Just wanna recap as
far as the Spring configuration. You can see
there on line 16 we are marking it as a
@Component. So, this gets brought up as a
Spring Bean. That JmsListener tells the
Spring context to register this as a
bean and to listen to that queue. And
technically, what we could have done here
if we weren't interested in all the
other stuff. All we needed to do is that
@Payload and the HelloWorldMessage,
we could have emitted the headers and
the message. I actually put those in
there to demonstrate this functionality
of what we could get from the message.
Because sometimes you might wanna put
custom properties in the headers. You
might want to put a correlation ID in
there. Fairly common to put in a
correlation ID and then do that for
logging. Here, I'm not running any logging.
I'm just using System.out because this
is an entire project. It's just a little
hello world experiment to show you the
functionality. But now, in summary we have
a message sender. So, this message sender
is gonna wake up every two seconds. We
have this System.out saying, "I'm Sending
a message", a message is sent. It's
actually taking that HelloWorldMessage
and Spring is converting that to JSON.
Putting it on the queue. It's going
to an embedded server. And remember, we're
using an embedded server right now. And
then, our HelloMessageListener that is
listening on that queue. So, the moment we
put it on the queue in this it becomes
available for a client which is what
this is. If there's a client listening on that
queue and it gets that message delivered
exactly one time. Now, if I were to do an
exception. Actually, let's demonstrate
that. Let me do this.
So, I'm just gonna do a  throw a new RuntimeException here. And now, if I run this,
let's go ahead and run this. Again, I'm
gonna run this in debug
Let's go ahead and I'm just gonna pass by a
couple of times.
And now if I look at the
console, you can see that I am
throwing the exception there. So, we
are getting some exceptions in there. And,
what's happening is we should be able to
see this here.
Let's see here.
jms_redelivered. So, as has been read on
delivered and you can see here that the
delivery count, this message has been
delivered nine times as I skipped ahead
there. What's happening is just to
reiterate JMS queue is very much
transactional just like a database. So,
when I de-queue that message, I'm actually
getting older message. But here, I'm
throwing an exception so that
transaction doesn't complete. So, ActiveMQ is
saying, 'Hey, this client and process a
message redeliver it'. So, it's gonna
redeliver until it gets a proper
confirmation from the client and not
throwing that message. So, very very
important distinction there. Something
a really nice feature about JMS where it
is transactional like that. So, if your
messaging client throws an exception and
does not confirm taking that message,
that message will get re-queued and re
delivered. So, very important to remember.
A very very nice feature about JMS.
That's why JMS is widely used and then
it is really not only fast but
rock-solid. So, hopefully you found this
little impromptu demonstration of
throwing the exception here helpful. And,
I will comment this out and I'll leave a
comment in there about that. So, obviously,
I don't wanna check it in in that state
where I'm tossing a runtime exception.
But I will leave that commented and allow
you guys to check out this code and
experiment with it as well.